README.md, before:

Personal Cancer Genome Reporter deployment recipes
==================================================

WARNING: Half baked ansible/kubernetes recipes, use at your own cost/risk.

Quickstart
==========

YMMV, since this assumes that the volume was prepopulated with data on `/mnt/work`:

```
pip install shade ansible>=2.3
ansible-playbook -i inventory launch_aws.yaml
ssh ubuntu@ec2-54-66-250-119.ap-southeast-2.compute.amazonaws.com
cd /mnt/work/pcgr-0.3.4 && ./run.sh
```

Also the `run.sh` script does not exist on PCGR, see [an example](https://github.com/sigven/pcgr#step-4-run-example) and adjust it to your inputs. Or create your own `run.sh`, i.e:

```
#!/bin/sh
time ./pcgr.py --input_vcf cov50-ensemble-annotated-decomposed.vcf.gz --input_cna_segments examples/tumor_sample.COAD.cna.tsv /mnt/work/pcgr-0.3.4 output UMCCR
```

Deploying PCGR
==============

The following steps assume that you have a previously configured [aws-cli](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli) and have a recent version
of ansible installed (2.3.x). If this is the case, ansible will create 

1. Tweak `ansible/project_vars.yaml` according to your current AWS zones and preferences.
2. `cd ansible && ./create_volume.sh`.
3. Take note of the `volume-id` generated on step 3 and edit `project_vars.yaml` accordingly.
4. Run `ansible-playbook -i inventory launch_aws.yaml` to deploy and install the EC2 instance linked with the previously created volume.
5. SSH into the newly created instance.

If all went well, you should be able to run pcgr [as specified in PCGR README](https://github.com/sigven/pcgr#step-4-run-example).

TODO: Have idempotency with volume creation for better automation (get rid of the `./create_volume.sh` and steps 2,3,4).

Saving money with Spot instances
--------------------------------

The following script included in `ansible` queries AWS's spot history and determines if the
instance we are asking for will be available. For instance, running the script with a `0.08AUD`
asking price gives us:

```
python ~/bin/get_spot_duration.py \
	--region ap-southeast-2 \
	--product-description 'Linux/UNIX' \
	--bids c4.large:0.08
```

That is 168 hours uptime at that particular asking price for `ap-southeast-2c`, that 
is ~87% savings at the time of writing this:

```
$ ./get_spot_duration.sh
Duration    Instance Type    Availability Zone
168.0    c4.large    ap-southeast-2c
108.2    c4.large    ap-southeast-2a
15.7    c4.large    ap-southeast-2b
```

Kubernetes
==========

Open ended experiment for now, there are some errors that [need some attention](https://twitter.com/braincode/status/865250048480817152).

Commit message:

Big refactor, unsure I want to continue with ansible for provisioning things like volumes safely, might switch to Terraform instead for instantiation and then leave ansible for OS provisioning?

README.md, after:

Personal Cancer Genome Reporter deployment recipes
==================================================

Introduction
============

Cancer reporting systems require prepopulating several gigabytes of genomic reference data and provisioning all software pieces, docker containers and configuration.

PCGR eases that, `pcgr-deploy` simplifies it futher.

This ansible playbook contains tasks to deploy [PCGR](https://github.com/sigven/pcgr) into Amazon and OpenStack clouds, with HPC-specific tasks added as a module (mainly NFS mounting).

Quickstart
==========

The following lines will install the deployment modules, deploy PCGR and run its built-in example as a validation:

```
pip install boto shade ansible>=2.3
ansible-playbook -i inventory launch_aws.yaml
ssh ubuntu@<AWS INSTANCE>
cd /mnt/work/pcgr-0.3.4
./pcgr.py --input_vcf examples/tumor_sample.COAD.vcf.gz --input_cna_segments examples/tumor_sample.COAD.cna.tsv /mnt/work/pcgr-0.3.4 output tumor_sample.COAD
```

Amazon or OpenStack or HPC?
===========================

This playbook allows for all of them, it has tested on the [Australian NCI supercomputing centre Tenjin private cloud](https://nci.org.au/systems-services/cloud-computing/tenjin/).

The following steps assume that you have a previously configured [aws-cli](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli) and have a recent version of ansible installed (2.3.x). If this is the case, ansible will create 

1. Tweak `ansible/project_vars.yaml` according to your current AWS zones and preferences.
2. `cd ansible && ./create_volume.sh`.
3. Take note of the `volume-id` generated on step 3 and edit `project_vars.yaml` accordingly.
4. Run `ansible-playbook -i inventory launch_aws.yaml` to deploy and install the EC2 instance linked with the previously created volume.
5. SSH into the newly created instance.

TODO: Have idempotency with volume creation for better automation (get rid of the `./create_volume.sh` and steps 2,3,4).

Amazon: Saving money with Spot instances
-----------------------------------------

The following script included in `ansible` queries AWS's spot history and determines if the
instance we are asking for will be available. For instance, running the script with a `0.08AUD`
asking price gives us:

```
python ~/bin/get_spot_duration.py \
	--region ap-southeast-2 \
	--product-description 'Linux/UNIX' \
	--bids c4.large:0.08
```

That is 168 hours uptime at that particular asking price for `ap-southeast-2c`, that 
is ~87% savings at the time of writing this:

```
$ ./get_spot_duration.sh
Duration    Instance Type    Availability Zone
168.0    c4.large    ap-southeast-2c
108.2    c4.large    ap-southeast-2a
15.7    c4.large    ap-southeast-2b
```

Kubernetes
==========

Open ended experiment for now, there are some errors that [need some attention](https://twitter.com/braincode/status/865250048480817152).
